We start our journey with
the invention of the telephone.
Maybe when you were
a child you played with
the telephone game with two
cans connected to a string.
So when you want to talk to someone
across the room, you have to shout.
If that person is much farther away,
you have to shout louder.
But if the person is much,
much further away, then you need a gadget.
The tin can was the gadget that was
used long before the telephone.
In 1875, Alexander Graham Bell is credited
with the invention of the telephone.
What was the tin can in our game of
telephone is now an electrical circuit.
So I want you to understand
the context here.
The telegraph was a main
mean of communication
around the time Bell
was doing his research.
He had a lot of background
in speech sciences,
hearing, linguistics,
and speech production.
He used to do a lot of work with
deaf people in teaching them
how to do lip reading and
make sign languages.
His own mother had hearing loss when
he was 12 years old, and in gatherings,
he would hold on to her hand and translate
what people were speaking to her.
So his background in telegraph and
speech sciences led him to look at ways to
convert speech into
electrical currents and
then the electrical
signals back into speech.
In this circuit, you will see the first
invention that Bell had
in one of his patents.
The receiver is the one that receives
the voice, and that terminology
is still used in many hearing aid circles,
and that plays speech through the ear.
And the sensor here is a microphone.
The microphone senses the speech signals
and converts that into electrical signals.
So now you have a sensor,
which is a microphone, and an actuator and
a network that is able to carry
speech from the microphone
to the speaker over the electrical wires.
So with this invention, you could talk
to people much, much further away
as long as the electrical signal
did not attenuate significantly.
And, of course, electrical signals carry
much further on a piece of
copper than acoustic signals.
If you don't get this concept, it's okay,
we will come back to
this in future lessons.
But the normal thing in those days
was when you made an invention,
you would go around on a road trip and
show it to dignitaries and various people.
And he did take it to London and showed it
to the Queen and a bunch of other people.
Sir William Preece, who was the chief
engineer at British Post Office at
that time, he thought this was
a real gimmick, a useless thing.
Let me pause here and have you read what
Sir Preece had to say about the telephone.
So I don't want to steal the thunder here,
but
in about 80 years it turns out
that the telephone is able
to do a lot of the things that
these messenger boys were doing.
To Dr. Preece's credit, the messenger
boys could take important documents,
bank documents, pictures,
whole bunch of things, from A to B.
And we will see that the Internet
is able to do all of that.
Whenever you have a new technology,
and it is disruptive,
it is very difficult for
people to see its value.
And it's a real art in managing
disruptive technologies for
the benefit of the industry or
the corporation.
I highly recommend this book
by Clayton Christensen,
if you're interested in these ideas.
Before we leave, I would like to show
the background that Mr. Bell had and
how he was so excited about inventing
the telephone using his background.
Jimmy?
>> I have an idea that if I could make
a current of electricity vary in intensity
exactly as the air varies in density
when sound passes through it,
then I could transmit sound,
even speech, telegraphically.
>> I'm sorry, but I don't understand.
>> I mean I could talk through a wire.
>> Talk through a wire?
>> Yes.
I could send a human voice as far as wires
could be strung.
>> Oh, but that doesn't seem possible.
Oh, I can't believe it.
It's talking through a wire.
>> I guess it's crazy.
>> Oh, when are you going to
start work on it, Mr. Bell?